Guide for performing end to end troubleshooting (#860)
sensu/sensu-docs: content/sensu-core/0.29/guides/troubleshooting.md

{{< highlight shell >}}
tail -n 10000 /var/log/sensu/sensu-server.log > sensu-server-10k.log && gzip -9 sensu-server-10k.log{{< /highlight >}}

## Local Client Socket

> By default the sensu-client process listens for check results on a TCP socket. There are several reasons for using the client socket to as a troubleshooting tool when deploying Sensu:

Reviewer: listens on both TCP and UDP ports by default

Review the logs on the Sensu server to determine if the issue is making it through to the server.
Grep for the error message, specifically the check "name" attribute.

{{< highlight json >}}
{"timestamp":"2018-10-11T11:02:00.576261-0500","level":"info","message":"processing event","event":{"id":"f4a9453f-ac70-4e91-a601-a97ff31c589a","client":{"name":"sensu.test.local","address":"192.168.156.176","environment":"testing","subscriptions":["dev","linux-hosts","roundrobin:web_probe","client:sensu.test.local"],"version":"1.5.0","timestamp":1539273717},"check":{"name":"testing","output":"THIS IS AN ERROR","status":2,"refresh":10,"executed":1539273720,"issued":1539273720,"type":"standard","history":["2"],"total_state_change":0},"occurrences":1,"occurrences_watermark":1,"last_ok":null,"action":"create","timestamp":1539273720,"last_state_change":1539273720,"silenced":false,"silenced_by":[]}}{{< /highlight >}}

It's also recommended that you note the event ID, as this persists and allows you to track an event throughout its lifecycle.

{{< highlight shell >}}
"event":{"id":"f4a9453f-ac70-4e91-a601-a97ff31c589a"}{{< /highlight >}}

> Ensure that the event is being handled by the mailer handler (you can do this by searching for the `event_id` and looking at additional log entries to confirm that the event is handled as expected). It's worth noting that in the mailer example, the issue typically seen is a lack of notifications due to the handler performing its own event filtering. The solution is to set a low refresh value in the check configuration. 

Reviewer: Is there an issue open for this community mailer handler behavior? How will we know when we can remove this aside from the guide?

{{< highlight shell >}}
tail -n 10000 /var/log/sensu/sensu-server.log > sensu-server-10k.log && gzip -9 sensu-server-10k.log{{< /highlight >}}

> ### Troubleshooting via the Local Client Socket

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Troubleshooting via the local client socket
```

This checklist is intended to be a step-by-step walkthrough of how to troubleshoot Sensu via the local client socket. There will be various examples for you to use and build on as you troubleshoot. 

> #### Local Client Socket

Reviewer 2: Since we're trying to keep this guide as short as possible, I'd recommend removing lines 101-103

> By default the sensu-client process listens for check results on a TCP socket. This allows you to submit ad-hoc check results, a capability which is very useful in  troubleshooting issues with Sensu, as well as testing and verifying that a particular configuration works as expected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default the sensu-client process listens for check results on a TCP socket. This allows you to submit ad-hoc check results, a capability which is very useful in troubleshooting issues with Sensu, as well as testing and verifying that a particular configuration works as expected.
```

This client socket can be disabled, but does provide a few configurable attributes. See the [client reference documentation][13] for further information. 

Before we start, let’s take a look at the prerequisites for using the client socket:

* sensu package installed
* nc package installed 
* jq package installed (not required, but will help when reading JSON results)
* sensu-client has minimal working configuration (client's keepalive timestamp (visible in dashboard or /clients API endpoint) is consistently being updated)
* sensu-client running (Can be verified with `systemctl status sensu-client`)
* Local socket is open (Can be verified with `netstat -tnlp | grep 3030` and `nc -vz localhost 3030`)

> Once the prerequisites have been met, we can move to troubleshooting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the prerequisites have been met, we can move on to troubleshooting.
```

#### Troubleshooting steps

Consider the following scenario: Sensu has been installed, has been verified to be working correctly (alerts are seen in the dashboard), and is configured to send alerts via the [mailer handler][14]. However, mail doesn't appear to be coming through.

We'll start by crafting a test command to send to the local socket. Why? There are several reasons for using the client socket to troubleshoot:

> 1. Less configuration overhead. I.e., you don't have to push a check via configuration management.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Less configuration overhead: You don't have to push a check via configuration management.
```

2. The ability to issue a check and subsequently resolve it is instantaneous. There is no waiting on a check interval to elapse before the result is published.

> 3. The ability to customize what sort

Reviewer 2: This "Why use the client socket for troubleshooting" content belongs at the beginning of the section.

Also there seems to be part of the sentence missing in line 127.

> echo ‘{“name”: “testing”, “output”: “THIS IS AN ERROR”, “status”: 2, “refresh”: 10, “handlers”: [“mailer”]}’ | nc localhost 3030

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< highlight shell >}}
echo ‘{“name”: “testing”, “output”: “THIS IS AN ERROR”, “status”: 2, “refresh”: 10, “handlers”: [“mailer”]}’ | nc localhost 3030
{{< /highlight >}}
```

> _WARNING: Successfully submitting a check result this way will be indicated by `ok` being printed on the next line -- typically this is appears ahead of the command prompt so it can be easily missed. See below for an example._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_WARNING: Successfully submitting a check result via the client socket is indicated by `ok` being printed on the next line -- typically this appears ahead of the command prompt so it can be easily missed. See below for an example._
```

Reviewer: To me this content seems more like a `note` or a `tip` than a warning ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

{{< highlight shell >}}

> [root@sensu ~]# echo '{"name": "testing_error", "status": 2, "output": "An error event should be created", "refresh": 10, "handlers": [ "mailer"]}' | nc 127.0.0.1 3030

Reviewer 2: I'd prefer including `sudo` in the command here or adding a note about requiring privileges. Otherwise, we'll need to change the syntax highlighting to `text` so the `#...` doesn't render as a comment.

Reviewer: Shouldn't need elevated privileges for this. Perhaps the prompt should change to `$` or go away completely?

ok{{< /highlight >}}

> _NOTE: A successfully submitted check result will also be logged to the sensu-client.log (viewable while in debug logging mode)._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_NOTE: A successfully submitted check result is also logged to the sensu-client.log (viewable while in debug logging mode)._
```

{{< highlight JSON >}}
{"timestamp":"2018-10-12T18:28:43.204565+0000","level":"info","message":"publishing check result","payload":{"client":"sensu-enterprise","check":{"name":"testing_error","output":"its just a test","status":2,"handler":"opsgenie","opsgenie":{"tags":{"this":"is wrong"}},"refresh":2,"executed":1539368923,"issued":1539368923}}}{{< /highlight >}}

> Review the logs on the Sensu server to determine if the issue is making it through to the server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Review the logs on the Sensu server to determine if the issue is making it through to the server.
```

Grep for the error message, specifically the check "name" attribute.

{{< highlight json >}}
{"timestamp":"2018-10-11T11:02:00.576261-0500","level":"info","message":"processing event","event":{"id":"f4a9453f-ac70-4e91-a601-a97ff31c589a","client":{"name":"sensu.test.local","address":"192.168.156.176","environment":"testing","subscriptions":["dev","linux-hosts","roundrobin:web_probe","client:sensu.test.local"],"version":"1.5.0","timestamp":1539273717},"check":{"name":"testing","output":"THIS IS AN ERROR","status":2,"refresh":10,"executed":1539273720,"issued":1539273720,"type":"standard","history":["2"],"total_state_change":0},"occurrences":1,"occurrences_watermark":1,"last_ok":null,"action":"create","timestamp":1539273720,"last_state_change":1539273720,"silenced":false,"silenced_by":[]}}{{< /highlight >}}

> It's also recommended that you note the event ID, as this will persist and you to track an event throughout its lifecycle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's also recommended that you note the event ID, as this persists and allows you to track an event throughout its lifecycle.
```

{{< highlight shell >}}
"event":{"id":"f4a9453f-ac70-4e91-a601-a97ff31c589a"}{{< /highlight >}}

> Ensure that the event is being handled by the mailer handler (you can do this by searching for the `event_id` and looking at additional log entries to confirm that the event is handled as expected). It's worth noting that in the mailer example, the issue that is typically seen is that the handler doing its own event filtering. The solution is to set a low refresh value in the check configuration. 

Reviewer 2: "is that the handler is doing"?

> #### Most Common Issues Surfaced

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Most common issues surfaced
```
